so let's take this clicker and see how
it works as you said I'm the CTO pop by
technology we are based in Sweden we
work with including systems so that's
the capacity while I'm here and work a
lot with wireless so what are we going
to talk about today well the goal is to
understand as I said all aspects of
wireless content creation and I don't
think you will have all aspects of it we
will talk briefly about business models
how the radio networks is acting a
content creation how the content
workflow works for an operator carrier
etc and also show you tools on how to
make this kind of content so how it all
started and it's totally baited with SMS
small messaging services I know it's
coming up now in u.s. you send these
text messages to each other as mess was
actually created as a diagnostic system
for gsm networks but in 98 it started to
grow a lot and you have this kind of SMS
message and person to person it grew
very lot in Europe in Asia after that we
got something called enhanced SMS which
is basically as an SMS with like a 24
bit graphics with it and in 2008 release
it early on and happen in two thousand
something called I mode was released by
giacomo it was basically like a
multimedia SMS and you have graphics you
had sound get animation etc and you sent
it to each other so that's really when
it started to take off then in 2002 the
so-called mms was released which stands
for multimedia messaging much it's like
an SMS but you can have video audio text
and emissions etc pretty much close to
what I motives and now we're in the face
of videos coming in and basically today
you have services where you can download
video and it works for different kind of
networks I'll talk about that later on
later on and you'll have streaming mail
today
it's about live streams like traffic
surveillance etc and old also video
telephony is coming on the 3g networks
the caramel doesn't likely because I
move around so I'm going to stand there
so a brief look at the business models
and if you look at SMS there's a lot of
operated SMS services yeah but most as
third-party as a message like let's say
you weather news that kind of thing and
it's based on revenue sharing so the
operator gets a piece of the SMS and the
SMS supplier also get a piece of it
exactly it also works as a big pipe and
when I say big pipe I mean that when i
send an SMS to one person to another the
operator issues used pay for sending sms
in this case it doesn't count bits it's
a unity price but the nasty messages
have X amount of size so that's why its
unity price and then we have mms and
it's pretty much the same thing you have
operator services based on mms your
third party mms services revenue sharing
annual also have the account of big pipe
where i sent an internet from me to
another person when we look at video and
download and streaming upset the
question mark because it's just started
and i see a lot of operators carriers
doesn't really know what kind of
business model they're going to have so
we have operators which acts as content
creators not that they sit down and
recall like a football game but they
take content from the TV station and
edit it so they make their own content
and some of them work with contents of
our service suppliers like revenue
sharing exactly as you did with SMS and
some only works as bit pipes so those
basically you have the same kind of
business models all the way when we talk
about video telefono is time-based with
the same as making a call so that's
pretty easy so this is the kind of
business more I'm not going to get in to
much talking about this because I'm
taking guy so what kind of networks do
we have today we have the 2g networks
which is like the exam which having
euthanasia loft the cdma tma in North
America and you can have 9.6 shell bits
per second when we talk about data
transferring if you would to do a
multimedia service and as you all can
understand you can't really do that much
it's not like a sender stream video /
9.6 we have the 2.5 generation networks
which goes up to 30 little bit kilobits
per second today and but the theory is
deeper s can go at 171 71 and you have
HS CSD odd force which the same English
which is up to 66 and you have edged
with some argue and say that 3g so it's
sort of 2.5 points file or something
like that which can come up to 474 but
that's in theory the networks today are
in practice when it's the we talk / 2.5
g is sergey kilobits per second that's
the fact then we are 3g which today only
have 64 kilobits per second you can get
one on 28 to bits per second services
and i will talk more about that later on
how that works but in practice is 64
kilobits per second today in theory it
will be able to go up to 2 megabits per
second both wcdma and cdma2000 so that
is the kind of network we are talking
about only 12 non-wireless today I'm
mainly going to focus on two and a half
g and 3d because that's why it can use
this video so brief look at what kind of
services do you have to our network
because that's actually the network is
some way a steering what kind of service
you can have of course for two years
speech and this is true for all it's a
three year two and half the speech is
one of the major businesses for or
services for operators they still
wouldn't make much much make much much
money most money
and the RS masters we talked about
before where you do this kind of
communication person-to-person
entertainment etc and ringtones is very
popular at least in Europe I don't
actually know how they the US but in
Europe is very popular to download the
latest song from your favorite artists
and handlers at the ringtone on two and
a half g you have this mms and which is
like an enhance SMS service the pretty
much the same kind of source which would
have an SMS but they'd added on
multimedia to it and you have video
download sports news etc and usually
going to talk about g4s networks with
its 2.5 we talk about streaming it's all
about traffic you can have traffic
surveillance you can check out of the
traffic on that road the 11 or etc yeah
it's small clips you can download or
stream news sports etc it's the same
kind of services all the time but you
have more content that you can use or
rich your content you can use depending
on the on bandwidth for mms it's the
same thing for 3g you have mms you have
video downloading you have streaming the
same channel services and on top of that
you have video telephony and the three
difference we have an operator called
three which actually is up and running
and doing these kind of services video
download where you can download news
sports entertainment you can look at
videos from your properties etc so this
is really up and running so this is how
the services sort of lay down or on the
networks so if it's about how radio
network acts i'm not going to talk about
it the structure of the rainy network
like all entries and etc if you have
questions about that you can take that
in a Q&A but basically a radio network
is built out of cells and if you talk
about deeper s with some of the language
because that's the easiest one if you
get time slots so you get a time slot
and many people think like okay it's
time slot how is that working in a g4s
network every call has very very small
time slot so let's say you have 100
slots per cell of course you have a look
more but this is your second calculated
in my head so yeah one thong time's up
when you enter the cell is pretty much
in theory 12 kilobits per second but you
always calculate with 10 because you
have a lot of overhead etc so usually I
come in typically you get three times
lots that's how it starts then you move
over to the next slot but in that slot
you have a lot of other users you might
just get to slopes in that cell and this
is one other thing is that different
radio networks from internet for
instance is that you actually move
within you don't you're not connected to
the same access point all the time you
are handed over to new access points all
the time but it could also be much
easier if you can be in the cell and X
amount of paper comes into yourself and
then once again you might just get two
time slots so 3g well it's the same kind
of thinking but we talked about megabits
per second instead this is same channel
think you have X amount of be straight
in a Cell so this is pretty much how the
radio network act so let's talk about
delivery or distribution if you look at
streaming for g4s as we said before one
point loss is twelve kilobits per second
but we calculated ten usually so we talk
about very very low bit rates like it 20
to 30 kilobits per second and which in
essence two to three times lots but one
of the most important thing about a gps
network or action and edge network as
well is that the operators can
prioritize the services and I haven't
met an operator carrier so for the
doesn't prioritize speech if there any
operators here who do this do the
opposite they can raise their hands but
I don't believe that so that means that
if their X amount of people in the cell
and they want to use ordinary speech the
people who appointed the GPRS flops the
time slots they would prioritize that
down so you will get like one time slot
a tube or something like that
and it's also like this that they can
prioritize in a way that says when you
come in to sell you have three times
lots but after 30 seconds one minute
they get down to time two times less
because they want to give more times of
in the beginning when the user comes in
through cell because you usually do
something like 10 20 30 seconds to begin
with then you want to have build access
then of course you have network
congestion you have a lot of packet loss
why wireless networks radiant effort is
like a no reliable internet you can have
half packets coming through radio
network which doesn't exist on that loan
on internet for instance and the other
thing is latency when you do streaming
you have the rtcp keep alive and the
course of the latency you might not get
that keep a line back to the stream
server so depending on how often that
the stream server expects to get this or
TCP call that it will shut down off the
one so that's why it's important to do
short clips when it will not scream you
need to rest because if you do 30 second
clip nothing is going to happen because
the probe usually takes about a minute
before the strings are xx suggestive of
the CP right if we talk about 3g
streaming well it's a bit of difference
they have something called PDP context
and you can have different kind of PDP
context the idea is that when you do
surfing you get the PDP context called
best effort that's like internet you get
64 kilobits but it's best effort it
depends on how many share available
bandwidth in that cell at this point
this is how all three networks acts in
the next release of 3g you will have
something called a dedicated PDP context
of streaming context which means when
you do the surfing and you access an
rtsp stream you will set up a new PDP
context which is a dedicated 64k bit ah
that is this fork a bit PDP context so
that means you need have 64 kilobits for
sure all the way but that's not really
area and then you have the same thing as
from g4s network and after congestion
packet loss it's much better than or
equals net work and still most of the 3g
networks are circuit switched and not
fully like a packet packet based network
so it's affected bearer which runs on
the circuit switched environment
quitting the radio network and the
circuits which is basically like
point-to-point legs that's that's what
you do with the ad on the internet you
know point-to-point connections so
that's what circus wishes and then you
have X amount of book the next wins in
the infrastructure which you have to do
considers well is that for instance on
internet you have companies like Akamai
and levels can conference replace relay
cash service out in the network that
doesn't exist on radio networks up to
date that's also something that is
coming in the next releases so today you
have both the next week's you can think
of it as routers as well we should have
to take in consideration it's not pretty
aroused disease it's oren cease trading
network controllers etc the most
important however is the firewall i
don't know how many people had asking me
about firewalls because the problem is
that usually operates and carries
doesn't open UDP excess and firewalls so
you can stream and everyone's trying to
stream and users can do it in Europe
they started opening opening it up and I
know then the Asia they have it a lot is
open up there but it also depends on a
business model to the operator allow for
third-party services which doesn't have
a contract with operator so that is one
of the major issues with streaming on
this kind of wireless networks so I'm
going to contain almost article 3gpp
3gpp is not really a standard it's
something called third generation
partnership program which is where you
have pretty much all the big telcos like
Eric's on nokia motorola docomo vodafone
touches on that kind of companies and
they made the file format called dog 3gp
and then you can ask the question why
its own file format in the beginning it
was actually using them before
well the answer is in 3gpp you use an
aim our speech codec and in mp4 you
allowed to have mpeg-4 or AAC our mp4
with ASC or kelp as the audio speech
codec but you don't have anymore so
that's why they created its own file for
Nicole dog 3gp but it's very similar to
end before which is very similar to
quicktime it's built on actions etc it
is very similar it has some extra atoms
to handle any more in adult 3gp file
you're allowed to have mpeg-4 simple
visual profile level serum I will
explain that a bit later with
differences you can have h.263 baseline
a more narrow band amor y them and AAC
low complexity which is what you can
have in and before as well and you can
also have time text that's what can have
in 3 p-5 this might supra note basic is
not really in the 3 SB fires wanted to
put out because the players on the
phones are supposed to be smile players
so the presentation language is smiled
to bordeaux basic and in that you can
call like three DP plus or tsp and i
heard a lot of questions about it but
it's actually smiling the epp uses smile
as the presentation language so what's
the different between 3gp pen is may
assume many of you are or know about
eyes may well one thing is this mpeg-4
simple wish your profile level 0 in RSM
a you have level 1 and the difference
between 0 and level 1 is basically
nothing if it's 64 kilobits per second
but on level c r you can only have one
video object and on level one you can
have four so this is just to minimize
everything for phone so the levels here
was created by mpeg-4 for 3gpp so that's
why it's in felicia profile level zero
you both have a AC upon you do streaming
in is ma use generic a cute icing which
my personal thought is is much better
but in 3gpp they use Latin packet on
thing and then of course it's the h.263
baseline and in ice make another mpeg-4
from simpler profile one two three I
think they also put in advanced profile
at this point and the a.m are correct so
this is like what differentiates 3p
benign MA and I samay is like CPP's
northeast on the station body so that's
why it's easy to compare it they just
point at different standards which are
used so a quick talk about terminals I
say all support 3gpp and that's not
really true but i'm from europe and in
europe is very true so yeah let's start
with nokia innocase the leading provider
of of handsets terminals and everyone
tells me that they use realplayer yeah
they do but a real player in the nokia
phones to port 3gpp so you can play a
dog 3gp file in a nokia phone you can
however not stream 3gpp2 it you can only
stream real format but the new phones
6600 supports streaming of both 3gpp and
real so if you make a dog 3gp file that
will work in the nokia phones even if
the real player in the sony ericsson
telephones the t800 is very popular
phone on this one with the gps telephone
they have the packet video player this
is an excellent player it's a poor 3gpp
it supports streaming according to 3gpp
and is ma so that's why i'm also going
to talk about it later it's in quick
time for instance you have an extremum
but it's not streaming concentrated PP
secondo is amazed but we work in certain
areas on total and all use q 6 5 5 17 26
times 144 and then on top of this you
have the motorola telephones you have
the next telephone matsushita etc etc
most of them in the world supports
really PP and some of them also supports
proprietary phone is like real or
Windows Media
or something like that so a quick thing
about mms this is also something that's
on the quick publish a lot of
misunderstanding nms this multi mind
formatted message it's like an email
it's basically it's an email you
something but it's to the phones and you
can have g-tech images gif images a more
sound you can have smile in it and you
can embed it to your PE file can OTS p
links etc so that's what an mms is so
when you make a 3gp file and you want to
transfer it to the phone it's not an mms
message you're sending if you you're
transferring a file and you're playing
it back when mms is not the 3gp file you
can use the 3d p file in lms and video
messaging which a lot of phones have
today is actually not the mms from
technical point of view is more like
just an email with an attachment but
that is more moving into conversation so
you have trouble sometimes when you make
it play for one so now you want to send
it to another you might not be able to
play so the phone might not even able to
recognize it because its proprietary way
of signaling what channel message you
get into the phone all mms is disputed
by an mms see ourselves in multimedia
messaging central is pretty easy and
that's pretty much like an email server
for all your work with I teen it is an
email server basically yeah and when you
get an mms you have something called
notification and that is sent by the PPG
push proxy gateway i think everyone also
that is anyway what is that it is sent
an SMS to your phone saying you have an
mms and you say ok is fine you click ok
then it goes to the mmsc and download it
so it's like a store for a function
exactly like in this SMS so let's get
into talk about content
oh so this is how it works how to get
content and well I seal all things like
the operation carriers and down then
this is not reading their business but
it's not going to look at it because
they need to sew and many times they
asked the wrong questions I've seen
country I for instance me I was in a
meeting with BBC and it came to be be
seen it said you won't have streaming we
won't have streaming content ABC didn't
understand what we're asking about so
they gave them now we have regular
windows media file they came back and
said Oh what we do all to do with this
and said all we have to reduce not care
because that's the only founded suppose
real but what they should have asked is
what kind of come to do you have what
can give us because BBC has like I don't
know enormous amount of mpeg-2 for
instance they do not have a lot of
screaming is just one percent which is
setting a streaming format from of BBC
produces for instance that is usually
one of the questions that they asked the
wrong questions so let's good for you to
know if your content graders make sure
you understand what they actually asking
for it and also another thing is that
Internet content you can't use that in
the phones I also heard it but it's a
lot of content on the internet what can
I use use in info well please it's not
adapted for wireless and if you just
look at the size of movies on the
Internet you realize that you can't get
it into mobile phone and then everyone
talks about real time trend scored again
it really doesn't work because you would
have liked this kind of building used to
do transcoding in real time as a saint
and a performance so the production wise
well the production are off obviously
not made for mobile phones it's a very
few production companies out there which
makes the football game to work in a
cell phone and it's basically like the
road like when you do encoding or
compression for any kind of thing is
that when you work with this low bit
rates you want to avoid transitions you
won't have clean tasks you don't want to
tell too much sue me and I want to have
too much movement and on the phone which
have they even smaller
is even more true and also it's like
when they get content sometimes over
it's not the production format it's not
like I can sit down and edit you get
like mpeg-2 or something which usually
requires pretty expensive equipment to
work with it so it's not like you're
getting motion jpeg or like it ycbcr
fight or something like that you usually
get a distribution format and rice is
another interesting thing which is an
issue some operators have the right to
the video the images but they do not
have the right before the commentary so
that means that they have to take it in
put on their own commentaries on it so
they need to edit and need to do
voiceovers on the content coming in yeah
so what I've seen today is that how to
draw the business if the operator in the
short term has to be the concentrator it
has to take responsibility yes getting
the content because it's hard to go to a
counter provider and say I want to have
content I want you to put it in three DP
etcetera etc because it's not as much
money for them to make at this point so
the idea is that you migrate in the
future from the operator be in the
content creator supplier whatever we
call it to actually get out to the real
content creators so they need to migrate
the business and say supplying them at
home them but that comes when you have a
lot of users of course because then is
the business also through concentrators
I'm not going to talk too much about
this this issues could give you an
example of how a streaming system looks
at an operator but I'm going to do it
very briefly from the left you have this
cm which is the content management
system and and then we have which I'm
going to entail a product from us the
compression ended which actually does
the compression so you put in continent
in the content management system it
automatically encode it into into the
countess performance you like to have
and then it's being distributed into the
screen service and HTTP service etc
would usually the French and operate a
carrier in this case from an internet
providers that they have some kind of
rtsp proxies or some point export or
just be proxy does is it takes care of
building etc because this has to be
connected to billing system and still I
don't think there's any internet service
which really makes money so this is
probably new thing so what happens is
when I set up an rtsp call the proxy
will intercept that it will go down as
you see check with the billing system to
see does this person have credit enough
yes he or she does it also checks with
the content management system to see if
the unity price for the content is it
per packet and from that it gets an okay
or knock saying yeah you can play this
content and after session is already
creative CDR which is a seed or is used
for for building actually so in the CDR
it says that this person looked at this
link for this amount of time whatever it
is and then it comes on the bills you
also have all this channel
authentication down below you see you
have triple a's that's the
authentication service so when you login
from the client you need to the network
knows who you are and what accesses you
have a spectrum it's a bit complex the
whole Shane but this is just to give an
ID on on how it works for a wireless
operator so now we're going to talk a
bit about creation and that's like it's
not supposed to be there and cool this
is a quick time I'll do it right them
okay small operations and you can have a
workflow which is pretty straightforward
you have this contest is required basics
you have like DV can or whatever is you
use like sonic a pro or something you
capture it in you edit the files you do
the encoding of it into 3gp file and you
direct to distribute it with quicksand i
released which has three DP support any
kind of third-party software can use
this quicktime api to create content so
even if you wouldn't use Final Cut Pro
but maybe
widor some other editing software you
will be able to create 3gpp compliant
contents so if you have quicktime pro in
that you can export a 3d pspice but you
don't need to have it if you're working
for an application sorry if you're in
like iMovie it came directly from their
create dr. eup fun I'll actually show
that that's why this isn't supposed to
be here so now we're going to get into
techy stuff about how en call so first
of all we're talking about low bandwidth
below 64 kilobits per second the most
important thing is to have this high
quality content coming using as possible
this is true for all kind of angle and
compression the best the highest for you
can get that so she should start with
one source of course use good quality
codecs you have to do some testing to
see which kind of codecs do you like how
does it work high quality pre-processing
it's just as important you have to scale
the pictures you have to crop the
pictures you have to correct gamma
etcetera etcetera and you have for
preprocessing well you don't get a good
quality and also is that you have to
reduce frame rates and of course you
have to do that all the time I mean use
reduce frame rate whatever you do when
your intimate usually but on a wireless
network is usually instead of maybe
going to 12.5 its pile of 16 you might
go to six point 25 or five or something
like that because it's better to have
better special credit spatial quality on
the frame instead I have any movement
because the screens on the mobile phones
isn't that fast for the kind of motion
that you're trying to reduce by having
more friends it's achieved anyway on the
mobile Falls it's better to have lower
frame rate and better quality only on
this on the frames itself you have
bandwidth constraints of course and all
of you see there are constant bit rate I
don't know how many of you really knows
exactly what it means
often Beatrice is not flat constantly
that means that you can fluctuate within
a certain timeframe and that is set by
the video buffer verifier so if you set
it to two seconds you will have a window
going over this file all the time and
under those two seconds if you set it 64
kilobits per second it can never go over
that so that is how the video but verify
it works so that's very important we
have very very constrained downward drop
frames if you have an encoder which can
drop frames to maintain good grades use
that because this is the most important
thing my wireless you don't have any
hand room to work with and of course
natural key friends is possible that's
the best way to do it but also if you
can add on the longest distance between
the two a key frame because that also
have to do with error handling if you
lose a keyframe you don't want it to
take too long until you can recapture we
capture it or on the images and of
course error handling in radar net we're
going to talk about streaming but if you
want to be able to set packet size how
many frames per packet etc and something
called our VLC reverse length coding and
that's very useful for when you have
congestion on the network so the codec
can determine itself that on the players
find that it can build sort of new
pixels so this is dependent on it on the
players you can use or VLC and also some
operators have video telephony and they
want to use video telephony to play
static files not being alive than you
usually need to use or VLC because
that's how the video telephony client
expects to get the frames also what we
talked about before is that make short
clips before capacity increases it's
about 30 seconds a minute that's good
file lengths to do it as i said before
new users are prioritized themselves and
coming in speeches prioritize etc make
short clips because speech as i said as
prior to order all kind of data
so streaming vs. download well a
streaming for wireless the process of
course that memory capacities homes are
limited so streaming in that sense is
very good it's less overhead in RTP than
an HTTPS you can put more pictures of
bits to the media itself which of course
is very good on this low bitrate it's
lightweight drm in itself because you
have to be very skilled get into phone
hacking and download the video on the
other hand why do you want to download
the video of 64 kilobits so but that's
one of the things and it usually is
viewable in about two to four seconds
cons yeah of course firewalls same thing
firewalls firewalls and it's not
supported by all those phones present I
think most of the phones by the end of
this year and the beginning of next
we'll have support for streaming
download well its support by old phones
all phones so that is a good thing of
course the concepts that most an
advanced support progressive download
which might seem a bit strange but def
if the fact it doesn't support
interlaced content so it needs to be
fully download the course before you can
start viewing the pictures images or
video for air and you need a large
storage on the phone in ourselves on a
computer you don't it's not anything
launch but you still need to have the
storage so this is the thing everyone
tells me out but the quality of download
files is usually much better because
you're not constrained to bandwidth
limitations you can have a higher
bitrate because this is download time
well yeah that's true for internet and
it's in theory through the wireless as
well yeah but the download time well if
you have breaking news and you have to
wait four minutes to get the breaking
news it's not breaking news anymore but
one of the more important things is that
you pay per packet so even if the
download extreme you pay for the amount
of packet you send and then people say
well if you should arise the unity price
sometimes well the operators cost for
every packet and this is what drives it
if you can make content
on a lower bandwidth good enough so the
user wants to pay for it and its cost as
little as possible for operator then
when I'm going that's when you're going
to get business because it costs for
operator so you have to treat download
at the stream you don't have to be s
constrained but don't think I can do 300
kilobits per second because I won't have
a better quality because the operator or
your customer wherever it is will come
and knock on your hands and things like
that so this is very important to think
about so this is where the QuickStart
thing was supposed to be so let's get
over to this machine which is laptop
number one do i change the you change
hmm all right what do you want me to do
ah so that's how it works so let's take
a look at quick sign them I have a small
file here somewhere this is just a
little video this is motion jpeg go to
protect innocent okay I kilohertz p.m.
sound so that won't export it into 3gp
file I get in movie 3gp as always I mean
like you always do put on desktop and I
have the options so on the file formats
I have something from mobile mpeg-4 and
this is basically dumped for docomo and
I don't know that much about this so
Apple has to answer questions about it
but this is basically down for document
because they have an mp4 file format
which is basically where you can have
anymore and things like that so now
we're going to go to 3gpp so if you
release 5.1 means that can time text in
it for three you can't so basically I
don't have text right now so I can
choose whatever by us use the 5.1 I
choose the size and in this case it's
cubes if for me because the three PP
says that you should use cubes if format
which is 176 x 144 or sub 2 uses which
is 1.8 x 96 one interesting thing here
is that q6 aspect ratios 11 9 & sub
juices is 43 and usually do you do wrong
with that and on all the track on this
case i use i say i want to do speech so
video i have my mpeg-4 correct i can use
h.263 for instance but I choose to do it
I do this that 40 kilobits a second I
used for 12.5 frames at this point
because it's all contents which 25 sites
that's why I central point 5 I put key
frame every second second
and in acs it's all your speech and this
is a more narrow than you're using right
now and you have fixed bit rates for it
as you can see when you drag it and this
is called modes and this is mode 7 the
highest one and it's always moan of amor
only two personal mono it's always a
thousand kilo hertz of sampling frames
per sample is when you do streaming and
then we come into the things about
streaming well if i do streaming basic
if it's quicktime pimping this is not
3gpp hinting but it will work in a ph on
the princess and we probably work in
some other phones as well because some
of them support stream including flights
may but in this case I don't want to
have it streamed so okay put it on
desktop save and off we go so this can
now use in quicktime pro as i said
before but this kind of thing is
accessible through the quicktime api
then II kind of third-party software any
kind of software can use this to create
this kind of content then it is so
there's not much about cropping and
setter pre-processing but that is what
dat account software you probably use to
you can do that in so that's how you
build it on top of the QuickTime 18 18
diversity and this is just the 800
megahertz old powerbook so don't worry
about the speed I think
Oh so here's the file what we sit which
is beautiful a mark on this is a
personal account for this camera okay
full of rich audio but that's what we
have to live with some fun here suppose
not yeah so let's get back to the
slide
am i doing something wrong no now it is
oh it's not huh so what I showed the
right now with small operation this is
where you can use like fun touch pro or
that camera editing tools and directly
go to 3 p-5 can use quicktime pro if you
have that to taking fast edit them do
that kind of thing when you get up to a
medium scale operation when you have
more content coming in from several
sources where you have like several
editing station like some calpro etc
then you have a demand for lord you're
sort of of tools so what I'm going to
show you right now it's actually for my
product or compression most which isn't
released yet it will be released on the
sixteenth of your life so this is visa
version and all of you know what betta
means so let's go over to the laptop
oh great so this is the compression
monster and we're going to start to do
some files here we're going to start
with some settings actually so I've done
for setting slippery and there so I open
up this and we go to the 64 cave it any
in this you of course you do the same
thing issues the file format you can
choose a lot of other but now it's talk
about 3gp so it's a three DP file I want
to use them take for a more narrow band
I want to do streaming so let's move on
to video sign on the video i put this
into well 64 maybe 42 probably something
like that I put the keyframe at 25
because bill this is pal in format i'm
going to use simple profile levels here
of damping for it is very important why
there's a button like this is because
the am peak force usually detect depend
on the bit rate which profile it is but
since profile 1 and 0 is basically the
same you need to be able to override up
and it also is because some operators
will come to you and say I want to have
128 kilobits of content but it still has
to be simpler we should profile level 0
so this is why I have this all right
thing then we had a buffer verifier and
I should actually set this to the
bathroom on the phone so if you know
that this phone have a two second buffer
usually the 3g phone it means that it
can handle 64 kilobits a second we have
to sort of calculate as well but it's at
52 seconds the sliding window order over
the content will say that all during
this two seconds line women can never be
about about 42 Killiks perception I say
Frankie probability which in this case
is dropping frames because I want to
make tain the pigs and with so i put
that pretty high like foot four percent
or something and i can use like or VLC
etc but that's not what i'm going to do
right now i put the frame rate down to
six point 25 frames per second because
i'm thinking about i'm going to play
this on them
i don't know i can say that brand but
it's a Swedish brown and I choose the QC
formats I can choose whatever I like
actually but they used to accuse the
format of the days now I don't want to
do any crossing on this file so and then
I can do like you know gamma correction
all that kind of thing but that's not
really important outfit for the demo
audio same thing a more narrow band 12.2
kilobits per second sample rate etc I
can do meter data output in stream and I
say five frames per second five frames
per packet for it so now I've done my
settings can take a look at some others
as well this is like a 128 but the
important thing here is about the
boundaries constrain all I doing is I'm
trying to keep the bandwidth that's the
most important thing which means
sometimes I will get a lower quality but
that's actually the fact of life so
that's how it is so let's put in a file
let's do the same song as we did before
I add on setting to it
so I used to 64 and I put it on desktop
and off we go and this is of course how
you can do batches you can put on a lot
of files a lot of settings it's just
about you know how many files you want
to do and with this sense you can build
a small but very fixed effective systems
you can have several editing station
commenting which is like motion jpeg or
the explorer s native from from Final
Cut Pro land use put it in here you have
your settings which you created you can
see to work with them if you like to or
you can use to use the settings you've
done once so if whatever one is going
and let's get over to the slides Oh will
go up this one so when you have a large
scale operation down well then you need
to have an automated system and that's
exactly what we built so with the
compression master you can export XML
settings the settings i showed you
before can be exported and you put them
into something called the compression
engine which accurate watch folders so
when you done this once the content
provider can put in like MPEG tucson a
watch folder and the compression engines
will automatically start the encode for
it so just to give you an idea is a
small an average portal if you look to
the right you have like two news feeds
10 times and 30 seconds financial
information traffic is not a lot of info
it's not a lot of files we actually know
10 call it it's not a lot of relocated
from from sort of service it's not that
much but it still generates a lot of
data so you have about 20 43,000 maggots
that has to be converted daily and its
turnover time from you drop it into the
system should not take one in one minute
and then you need to have a pretty
powerful system to do that
so this is a real world example of how
an operator works and they hired a post
production company which has the
compression monster which creates the
xml settings so they work like a sort of
quality quality or you say quality
control of how it's done and they can
also make like trailers of Nemo of
course very good film into directly and
work with it because it's a trailer you
fixed on you work with that you test
with it and you make this in the 33 file
you send it to the operator but when we
talk about automated service like new
sports etc what happens is that the
broad causes deliveries as mpeg-2 funds
which they haven't like the grass valley
servers or quantel whatever it could be
and it takes this mpeg-2 thought we
should produce anyway so they don't have
to do any special production in their
case they don't have to do any pretty
formatting or files they use drop it
into the watch folders and the
compression engines on the Rights which
resides that the operator stops
automatically to compress this into 3gp
files and the other thing is that they
also taking files and they do editing of
it and it's a taste transfer so they
take its tape take the tape put it into
like Final Cut Pro edit it and implicit
into the compression monster under
compression aliens and this is pretty
cumbersome so the next step what we're
looking at is to set a compression
engine at the Compton provider lil
having the post-production company
delivered the xml file to controllable
channel settings that is the production
company drops their mpeg-2 directly into
the compression engine and it goes maybe
as a yuri file so you can edit it in the
Final Cut Pro without going to tape
which takes a lot of takes away a lot of
time or if you go directly to 3gp file
so you will be able to remove that
that's how an operator works today so
right now i'm going to show you let's go
to a laptop about how this workflow
actually goes
so in my compression mode right now here
is right now are looking at these
machines I have a watch folder on these
excerpts which I see here I've done two
settings what i can do is that I can
from here exporter setting so I take
this on 28 I don't think I how does one
nope so let's export this one so i
exported from dec sport yes so that's
one as well so now I have this setting
so now I'm going to move it over to the
compression and inside you smooth it
over this is demo gods so so now i have
three settings in here so now i can take
any file from here when i've edited and
i can drop it in and now it's a 100
megabit network so it will take a while
to do this so while I'm doing that we
can switch over to this machine because
i'm going to put in a lot more files but
it will take too long time to do it from
there so let's go today serves so right
now here is my watching folder and now
I've done some media files I'm copper
this one this is the 30 second clip so
let's put this in
so now I'm coping it over to the
compression engines and I don't know if
you can see if it started working
anything I'm still coughing so
do a refresh and probably saying this
anything so not a faster coming out and
this is done through automatic on this
excerpt so let's step it up let's study
in some mpeg-2 so take all these put
them in there as well oh the netbook
hates me so still the father coming out
there so we can take a look at for
instance this one this is the M take 25
which is converted or the only this is
fast coming out of it mr. Burke sorry
yeah sorry about that so in this way i
can use have it this system running all
the time and it does it fully automatic
and it i think now it's a lot of fuss is
it working does anyone see anything one
of them o Network story about that
see what happens here this is typical Oh
well anyway I'm putting in like 60 fonts
in these systems so now it's starting
automatically and this is the kind of
system that the operator needs to have
when I'm talking about automated
processes so they put this sort of
clusters of endings of excerpts for
instance and they just drop being fast
and they work towards doing this because
the turnover time has to go so fast to
do this so they really need to have it
working like a one-minute clip should
come out in the phone within them within
maybe one to two minutes later on so
that's how fast it needs to go and since
the network isn't really doing was
supposed to do you won't really see this
unfortunately well can't go today yeah
you have it here so now you see the file
for coming out there so this is like the
another restriction mcneil video and I
see this is down from mpeg-2 so the
quality becomes pretty good if you put
in really good content because this is
this is a 64 kilobit total so there's
the video is about 40 kilobits a second
at this point so I think you get the
idea on how their compression engines
work and you have even more false
working I think now most of them are up
and running the excerpts so let's go
back to the slides so to conclude it
yeah first of all you need to understand
the operated business you need to
understand if it's a unity price this is
price for packet and you need to
understand if the operator is actually
competing with services because today no
press will compete with what kind of
service you have to really need to
understand that you need to be fully
integrated with existing production
environment which means that you need to
be fully integrated weird like what the
TV producers like or doing like NP to
whatever it is so you can take the kind
of formats and then with the legacy
systems as well so you don't add any
time on that
and of pre formatting time to show time
is very important breaking news have to
be breaking news because why should you
pay for service to mobile phone if you
won't get it before anyone else if you
can just go home and put on the TV and
the output format I say shall fully
support the standard set by 3gpp because
that means that you will have the most
coverage of old oil terminals telephones
etc use this high quality source
material in as possible because that's
that's the only way you can get really
good quality and I kind of low bit rates
and so don't use like pre-compressed
come to like from internet or whatever
it is yeah I understand the next word
constraints don't understand how
bandwidth how much bandwidth you have to
play with how you prioritize how the
operates private types of services this
is very important to know the price has
speech how much do you get three times
lots we ended in etc of course most i
mean obvious thing is optimize the
compression for distribution in wireless
networks and to be displaying the mobile
devices streaming versus download
sensing their trees download exactly as
a stream because the operator has a cost
for every bit yeah and you definitely
need to be the expert because this is
new for operators even if you don't work
with the whole Shane you need to
understand how stream server works you
need to understand maybe how they're all
the FV proxy works you need to
understand all the way so be the X would
help them out because that is one of the
major problems and the most important
thing is test it seems like I've heard
so many people saying well we did a
cliff then we tried it in a phone and it
worked and that's all I do this is
completely new for all people involved
doing this kind of services we really
need to test the trial to see how does
it look like an accountant can I have
how does it work etcetera that's the
only way to do it
so wrap up which means you hiya handsome
very much for his presentation next we
usually go through a road map slide
unfortunately seven secession 721 that
was going to follow the session in the
room next door has been cancelled so I
encourage you to go to session 722
advanced quicktime interactivity which
actually is in this room then on
Thursday we have a variety of other
quicktime sessions and of course our
feedback form that's going to be at
three-thirty and it's now in the marina
room we also have a couple of sessions
on Friday as well if you have any
questions about quicktime development
please contact your mole Ortiz who ours
our quicktime technology manager at
quicktime man at apple com for more
information we have a list of these
websites for you first of all there is a
lot of information about 3gpp on the
apple com website pop wire technology
can be found at pop wire calm to look at
all the products that Papa has created
for this industry obviously there's some
general information on our website about
quicktime develop for information and so
forth some other things not to miss
hopefully you seem use a couple of times
by now but we have a QuickTime content
creation and QuickTime development lab
the lab hours are they're open until 6pm
tonight then Thursday only until
four-thirty and also on Friday